[Music]
dr. crony has come to gig harbor to meet
the talented Nellie for herself she
wants to understand more about how
Nellie perceives the tasks that she
performs on stage
although Nellie can perform her
repertoire of tricks on command it
doesn't tell as much about how flexible
or creative her thought processes really
are
Nellie recognizes dozens of different
individual objects used in her stage
show and that each one has a specific
purpose but when asked to put an
odd-shaped object in the basketball hoop
she clearly questions the logic of that
command now this is interesting because
now he's having to check this out and
she's making a comparison Nellie put the
ball in the hoop what now he is doing is
telling us something about what she sees
this task accomplishing and it's putting
a round object into that hoop and so
it's a very specific concept she has of
what's supposed to be going on here this
ability to recognize shapes and textures
helps explain her stage finale spelling
out the word ham from the alphabet
Nellie can recognize the letters are
made of wood unlike the rest which are
made of plastic but this trick also
tells us something about Nellie's
intelligence she's consistently picking
out these letters in a certain order and
that's important because she has to
remember that order there's a level of
learning and memory that are coming into
play here the next task is a game called
wind stay lose shift Candice once Nellie
to guess which one of these objects she
has chosen a green glass and a bell a
place side by side picking the glass
means treat picking the Bell means no
treat the trick is to work out the rule
without any clues
[Music]
on her third attempt if Nellie picks out
the green glass it proves she
understands the rule she didn't get a
reward for picking the bell the first
time so she switched and picked the
glass that's exactly what we want to see
them doing if they get the rule of
Wednesday Lu's shift your choice after
years of training Nellie the results are
a big surprise for Priscilla so we're
actually teaching her to be creative to
not use cues from the outside she's not
being trained to use to do these tricks
she has to figure it out on herself it's
quite hard I think for an older Pig to
do some of these tasks because again
we're asking her to shift her thought
process a little bit we're asking her to
do things not only that she hasn't done
before but to think completely
differently for how she from how she has
been taught to work and so this is
probably quite difficult for her so it's
impressive she can do this at all for
the first time ever the Elvis project
allows the Dolphins to use echolocation
as a pointing tool to make choices and
answer questions
a series of shapes are projected onto an
underwater screen each shape symbolizes
a different type of fish for example a
square and a mackerel across is a squid
by aiming their echolocation beam at a
shape projected on the screen the
dolphins can choose what type of fish
they want to eat the echolocation beam
shows up as dots green is a weak signal
white is strong underwater hydrophones
record the echolocation sound signals
hydrophones 16 you know and the cable
just takes the signals from the
hydrophone to the computer when the
echolocation beam is strong enough for
the computer to read the signal the
trainer's whistle blows and the Dolphins
get their chosen reward only three
dolphins in the world have been trained
to do this out of them Luna was the
quickest to grasp the concept
[Music]
she manages to hit her chosen target
almost instantly every time Luna is a
young dolphin and as such a little bit
more motivated she she likes to play to
investigate things and she's very eager
to please the trainers each run of the
experiment yields different results it
allows Luna to choose what she wants to
eat some days with is her favorite on
others it's Michael
here the symbols for Caitlin and squid
and this round and green dots are the
trace of the sonar beam and now Luna hid
the squid symbol and then she made a
little buzz of happiness that she
managed to trigger it she can now go
back to the trainer and she will be
given a squid and when her work juices
are over for the day it's time for some
well-earned rest and play the Elvis
system is still in its infancy
Amandine hopes one day it could be used
for other projects including allowing
dolphins to choose toys play their own
music and even reveal their emotions
meet Griffin the star of the avian
learning experiment an experiment to
prove that parrots are capable of more
than just parroting Griffin's human
partner in the experiment is dr. Irene
Pepperberg we started to establish a
two-way communication system with a bird
that would allow us then to use that
system to examine his intelligence
through this two-way communication with
Griffin dr. Pepperberg is unlocking the
secrets of the bird brain and showing
just how much a parrot can understand
for the past 12 years Griffin and dr.
Pepperberg have worked together let's go
check in here first okay we go check
email first yeah Griffin is a little bit
cautious a little bit watchful Griffin
is an academic bird who doesn't mince
his words he means what he says and he
says what he means
okay paper that's right for birdie there
we go dr. Pepperberg simplified language
uses the minimum number of words
possible so instead of asking what has
this made of she asks good boy Griffin
can also understand abstract concepts
and even has the ability to use numbers
[Music]
for his right boy but Griffin has plenty
of competition for the title of genius
parrot his main rival has flown in from
Tennessee to give a special performance
at a top Boston nursery school would you
like to hear her talk can you tell
everybody your name this is Einstein now
Einstein cute everybody hi can you be
more polite sweetheart it's pretty sweet
numb before we start Einstein do you
need to clear your throat
Irene has come to see Einstein firsthand
because she's heard of her impressive
vocal abilities now Einstein just took a
trip all around the world well in Africa
there's a lot of chimpanzees who do
chimpanzee how about a pig what about
one that needs to go on a diet but today
was a very special day for Einstein
because it was her birthday what did you
do if you got a peanut
[Music]
even though Einsteins ability to mimic
is impressive
Irene still thinks that Griffin is top
of the class when it comes to
comprehension bumblebees have
particularly large and heavy bodies and
flight for them can be a real effort
that's particularly so in spring when
the mornings are cold and Queen
bumblebees are just emerging from their
winter sleep it's only a few degrees
about freezing but a queen needs to get
started early to look for food the thick
furry hairs on her body help to conserve
what he chooses to generate at the
moment she's only a few degrees warmer
than the surrounding vegetation as the
thermal camera clearly shows her body is
only marginally more pink and the blue
leaves and moss around her
but she has a special way of warming up
for flight she can put her wings out of
gear so that without moving them she can
rev up the wing muscles inside and that
raises the temperature within her thorax
by 20 degrees centigrade or even more as
the expanding yellow image on the
thermal camera indicates
body temperature is now over 30 degrees
centigrade at last she has a chance of
liftoff
[Music]
she will now be able to visit the spring
flowers while it's still too cold for
others to do so
[Music]
the long trumpets of the daffodils
retain heat very well and they're still
warm even after their hot bodied
visitors have left so here's the problem
the elephant's need to be able to pull
the table closer to gain access to the
sunflower seeds and they need the rope
to do that but if only one of them pulls
the rope the table doesn't move and they
both go hungry so can two elephants
figure out they need to work together to
solve a brand new problem
[Music]
they don't get it first time out that's
for sure but therefore kilogram brains
may just be at work the first thing I
think that they learn and there has to
be some learning involved in this is a
task they've never experienced before
the first thing is that they've learned
that their partner needs to be there and
I think in some ways they've learned not
only does their partner need to be there
but their partner needs to be doing
something
[Music]
after only three attempts the smartest
elephants solve the puzzle but Josh
wants to know if they understand the
concept behind it so he releases one
elephant before the other to see if
it'll wait for its partner
after eight years of working with
elephants Josh had a hunch that was
going to happen and now he's got proof
what you're seeing is that the elephants
are thinking about cooperation and that
actually demonstrates how smart and how
well adapted these animals are it's
incredible to prove that animals are
smart enough to cooperate
[Music]
[Applause]